---
posturl: stakx-0-1-2-watchful-bandicoot
title: stakx 0.1.2 "Watchful Bandicoot"
date: 2017-10-01
author: allejo
categories:
  - releases
---

The release post for 0.1.2 comes a few months late due to simple neglect of the project website but it was released back in June 2017. You can view the full [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/stakx-io/stakx/blob/v0.1.2/CHANGELOG.md#012-watchful-bandicoot) for a full list of changes but here are the highlights.

## So what's new?

This release mainly focused on improving and stabilizing the `watch` command but that doesn't mean new features weren't introduced as well. Here's a summary of what's new in this release.

### The watch command

The `watch` command is no longer an experimental feature and support has improved. Issues with watching folders with spaces in the file path has been fixed as well as several issues occuring on Windows only.

### Permalink Case

A new configuration option has been added to `_config.yml`; this new option will allow you to preserve the case of your permalinks. By default, permalinks generated by stakx will always be converted to lower case but by setting this value to true, permalinks will keep their case.

```yaml
build:
  preserveCase: false
```

### Redirects for ContentItems

ContentItems now support a special FrontMatter key named `redirect_from`, which supports an array of permalinks that will redirect to the canocial URL for the given ContentItem. These redirects are on a per ContentItem basis, meaning redirects will only apply for the specified ContentItem and not every ContentItem with a PageView level.

### Highlighter Improvements

Custom language definitions for stakx's built-in Highlight.js port can now be defined through the `_config.yml` file; documentation for how to make use of this feature is coming.

The highlighter component can also be disabled entirely if you'd prefer to have a JS based solution.

```yaml
highlighter:
  enabled: true
  languages:
    bzw: _languages/bzw.json
```

### Twig Filters

There were 3 new Twig filters introduced in this release: [`md5`]({{ url(collections['twig-filters'].md5) }}), [`sha1`]({{ url(collections['twig-filters'].sha1) }}), and [`zip`]({{ url(collections['twig-filters'].zip) }}). Additionally, the [`select`]({{ url(collections['twig-filters'].select) }}) and [`url`]({{ url(collections['twig-filters'].url) }}) filters have received new parameters.

## So what's next?

Despite this really delayed post and lack of development over the summer, stakx is not dead. There are plans for a 0.1.3 with some new features and bug fixes but the main focus will be on 0.2.0 development. This new major release release will mainly focus on optimizing and restructuring the project.
